README.md, before:

Deep learning tests
===================

Sketchbook for developing a simple binary classifier in Python using deep learning techniques such as multilayer perceptrons and convolutional neural networks. Includes a number of tutorials and examples, mostly to get the hang of various libraries available for the task.

Installation
------------

There are two ways to run these programs: using CPUs (slow) or GPUs (fast). The Python setup for both is the same (assumes you're using virtualenvs and have virtualenvwrapper installed): 

```
mkvirtualenv deeplearn
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

To verify that everything worked, run:

```
python tutorials/mnist-keras-mlp.py
```

This will build and train a simple multilayer perceptron using your CPU.

### Optional: Installing matplotlib on OSX

If you want to be able to visualize the output of the network, you'll also want to set up [matplotlib](http://matplotlib.org/) to be able to open a plotting window on your Mac:

```
echo "backend: TkAgg" > ~/.matplotlib/matplotlibrc
```

### Optional: Configuring for GPU access using CUDA
 
GPU setup is optional but worthwhile. And it comes with a catch: namely that it won't work on a Mac unless you have an NVIDIA graphics card (which you probably don't). The libraries we're using here, namely Theano, rely on [CUDA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CUDA), which is an NVIDIA-specific parallel processing platform. That means your best option for using a GPU is to boot up an EC2 instance with NVIDIA GPUs.

This should be pretty painless, so long as you have a key to set up servers in Amazon's EC2 service. First, start a GPU instance on EC2. This takes a few minutes.

First you may want to set some environment variables, described here:

**Required:**

  - `GPU_INSTANCE_KEY`: The name of your Amazon keyfile, minus the .pem extension.

**Optional:**

  - `GPU_INSTANCE_REGION`: The region in which your GPU lives. Defaults to `us-west-1`.
  - `GPU_INSTANCE_AMI_ID`: The AMI ID you want to use. Defaults to community AMI `ami-91b077d5`.
  - `GPU_INSTANCE_TYPE`: The type of EC2 instance. Defaults to `g2.2xlarge`.
  - `GPU_INSTANCE_NAME`: The name of your instance. Defaults to `deeplearn-gpu`.

Once that's set up, you can create and bootstrap an instance by typing:

```
fab gpu_up
```

Pay attention and follow the prompts. After that's done, SSH into the instance using your key:

```
ssh -i ~/path/to/your_key.pem ubuntu@gpu-server-hostname-from-previous-step
```

You can also try using `fab gpu_go`. Now try running some code from the remote server. This app should live in ~/deeplearn-tests.

```
cd ~/deeplearn-test/tutorials
THEANO_FLAGS=mode=FAST_RUN,device=gpu,floatX=float32 python mnist-keras-cnn.py
```

If that works, you're good to go. Don't forget to shut down the instance once you're done, unless you like spending money:

```
fab gpu_down
```

Resources
---------

The libraries we're using for these tests include:

  - [Theano](http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/): A mathematical library that allows us to perform calculations on GPUs (among other things) and underpins most Python deep learning systems.
  - [Keras](http://keras.io/): Among the more mature and user-friendly libraries for building neural networks in Python. Requires Theano.

Questions?
----------

Contact Chase: chase.davis@gmail.com

Commit message:

Instrux tweaks and boto dotfile

README.md, after:

Deep learning tests
===================

Sketchbook for developing a simple binary classifier in Python using deep learning techniques such as multilayer perceptrons and convolutional neural networks. Includes a number of tutorials and examples, mostly to get the hang of various libraries available for the task.

Installation
------------

There are two ways to run these programs: using CPUs (slow) or GPUs (fast). The Python setup for both is the same (assumes you're using virtualenvs and have virtualenvwrapper installed): 

```
mkvirtualenv deeplearn
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

To verify that everything worked, run:

```
python tutorials/mnist-keras-mlp.py
```

This will build and train a simple multilayer perceptron using your CPU.

### Optional: Installing matplotlib on OSX

If you want to be able to visualize the output of the network, you'll also want to set up [matplotlib](http://matplotlib.org/) to be able to open a plotting window on your Mac:

```
echo "backend: TkAgg" > ~/.matplotlib/matplotlibrc
```

### Optional: Configuring for GPU access using CUDA
 
GPU setup is optional but worthwhile. And it comes with a catch: namely that it won't work on a Mac unless you have an NVIDIA graphics card (which you probably don't). The libraries we're using here, namely Theano, rely on [CUDA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CUDA), which is an NVIDIA-specific parallel processing platform. That means your best option for using a GPU is to boot up an EC2 instance with NVIDIA GPUs.

This should be pretty painless, so long as you have a key to set up servers in Amazon's EC2 service.

First log into the AWS console. You'll need to set up a few things if you haven't already:

  1. Create or download an EC2 keypair in `us-west-1` (if you're using default settings). You can call it "deeplearn" to save yourself a step later.

  2. Create an IAM role, or find an existing one, and give it full EC2 permissions. You'll need to copy the access and secret into a local ~/.boto file, as described here.

  3. Be sure your default EC2 security group allows you to SSH to instances wherever you are.

Next you'll want to set some local environment variables, described here:

**Required:**

  - `GPU_INSTANCE_KEY`: The name of your Amazon keyfile, minus the .pem extension.

**Optional:**

  - `GPU_INSTANCE_REGION`: The region in which your GPU lives. Defaults to `us-west-1`.
  - `GPU_INSTANCE_AMI_ID`: The AMI ID you want to use. Defaults to community AMI `ami-91b077d5`.
  - `GPU_INSTANCE_TYPE`: The type of EC2 instance. Defaults to `g2.2xlarge`.
  - `GPU_INSTANCE_NAME`: The name of your instance. Defaults to `deeplearn-gpu`.

Once that's set up, you can create and bootstrap an instance by typing:

```
fab gpu_up
```

Pay attention and follow the prompts. After that's done, SSH into the instance using your key:

```
ssh -i ~/path/to/your_key.pem ubuntu@gpu-server-hostname-from-previous-step
```

You can also try using `fab gpu_go`. Now try running some code from the remote server. This app should live in ~/deeplearn-tests.

```
cd ~/deeplearn-test/tutorials
THEANO_FLAGS=mode=FAST_RUN,device=gpu,floatX=float32 python mnist-keras-cnn.py
```

If that works, you're good to go. Don't forget to shut down the instance once you're done, unless you like spending money:

```
fab gpu_down
```

Resources
---------

The libraries we're using for these tests include:

  - [Theano](http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/): A mathematical library that allows us to perform calculations on GPUs (among other things) and underpins most Python deep learning systems.
  - [Keras](http://keras.io/): Among the more mature and user-friendly libraries for building neural networks in Python. Requires Theano.

Questions?
----------

Contact Chase: chase.davis@gmail.com
